# HybridOS

HybridOS is a totally new open source operating system designed for smart IoT devices
and cloud computing environment.

HybridOS tries to provide the developers with more possibilities than just a
traditional operating system for a stand-alone hardware environment.

HybridOS not only runs on smart IoT devices to support application development
on devices, but also provides programming interfaces for the cloud and the clients.
It tries to give the developers a new complete software stack and protocol stack
from devices to the cloud and the clients.

## Table of Contents

- [Why We Design a New OS for IoT?](#why-we-design-a-new-os-for-iot)
- [Technical Terminologies](#technical-terminologies)
- [Goals of HybridOS](#goals-of-hybridos)
- [Design Documents and Specifications](#design-documents-and-specifications)
- [Organization of Source Code](#organization-of-source-code)
- [Current Status](#current-status)
- [Copying](#copying)

## Why We Design a New OS for IoT?

At present, when we want to develop a consumer IoT (Internet of Things) device,
we have to build a software team which has five engineers at least due to
the complex software stack and protocol stack of IoT computing environment:

* At least one firmware engineer who writes programs in C/C++ for
the IoT device, which generally runs a RTOS or Linux.
* At least one server engineer who writes programs in Java/PHP/Python
for the cloud services.
* At least one front-end engineer who writes webpages in
JavaScript/CSS/HTML5 for webpages.
* At least two client-end engineers who write apps in Java,
Objective C, or Swift for smart phones, which run Android or iOS.

In addition, for some devices which are used for business, we need one
or two engineers to write desktop apps in C/C++ for Windows, macOS,
or Linux.

Obviously, the development cost of an IoT device is much higher
than a traditional embedded device. We need a new operating system to
simplify the software and protocol stack of IoT applications,
reduce the development cost, and improve the productivity.

Not only that, the popular cloud computing services we can get from
AWS, Ali, or Huawei are not dedicated for IoT applications. We have
to develop some cloud services by ourselves to implement some features
for our IoT devices. Moreover, the security of an IoT service
is being seriously challenged.

For example, with the development of IoT technologies, we can now use our
own smart phone to remotely control the home air conditioner or view the
home camera in real time.  We can even use the smart phone to remotely open
our home door from the office. However, have you ever thought about the issue:
how your smart lock knows that the received door open command is sent by you?
Or, conversely, is the real-time monitoring screen that you see on your smart
phone generated by your own camera?

The reality is that any cracker who breaks into the cloud can easily control
all IoT devices connected to the cloud remotely, including your smart door locks or
cameras. The current IoT products, like traditional Internet applications, have not
improved much in terms of security. The scenes that we can often see from spy war
movies can still be easily performed in reality.

This is because most IoT developers are not security experts, and they often
downplay the security challenges of the IoT system or choose a bad solution
to implement a security policy.

Some ideas from the blockchain technology may change this. The decentralized
design of the blockchain provides another way to enhance the security of IoT.
HybridOS will try to utilize some parts of blockchain technology and
the mature and successful practice from the industry to improve the security
of IoT.

We see HybridOS as an operating system running on the network. We are committed
to freeing IoT developers from various protocol stacks and complex software
stacks. At the same time, HybridOS hides the security implementation details
in order that the developers can focus on their applications.

## Technical Terminologies

* Device: The IoT device; For HybridOS, the device here refers to a smart
  device that has direct access to the Internet and with or without a display.
* Device App: An app runs on a device, with or without GUI.
* Client: A desktop computer, a smart phone, or a tablet.
* Client App: An app runs on a client.
* Node: The IoT node; For HybridOS, the node here refers to a constrained IoT
  device in a constrained network.

## Goals of HybridOS

### A new programming language for universal app

HybridOS provides a new and universal app framework for IoT devices and client apps.
The developers can write device app and client apps for Linux, Windows, macOS,
Android, and iOS operating systems by using HVML (Hybrid Virtual Markup Language).
HVML provides a data-driven programming model, and one developer can easily write
an app with GUI by using HVML like writing a HTML document. HVML also provides
a way to integrate external modules writing in other programming languages.
On low-end IoT devices, you use C++ as the external programming language,
while you use Python or JavaScript on high-end IoT devices and/or clients as
the external programming language.

Finally, the app programming languages of HybridOS will be reduced to two:
HVML and one object-oriented programming language (Python, JavaScript, or C++),
no matter on device, mobile phone, computer, or server.
As a result, the development cost of an IoT application will be reduced
greatly by using HybridOS.

### A specialized software stack for IoT

HybridOS provides a new software stack for IoT applications:

A new implementation for common server, such as data bus, HTTP,
CoAP, and streaming servers. HybridOS provides a different
architecture for the implementation of the servers: any HybridOS app or
service can register and work as a real service provider or a request
provider of the servers.

### IoT-dedicated cloud computing services and security implementation

HybridOS integrates some cloud computing services which are dedicated to IoT,
such as a distributed MQTT server, identity authentication mechanism,
and some basic services, such as firmware and app upgrade.

HybridOS will introduce the serverless technology for the IoT cloud
computing. In this way, the developer can easily integrate the existed
cloud services by writing a simple script in Python.

In the future, HybridOS will try to provide a blockchain-based IoT security
service. HybridOS will provide an enhanced MQTT implementation for
communication between things and an identity authentication mechanism
based on blockchain technology/idea.

### Rich connectivity

On the device side, HybridOS integrates a standard peripheral and task
management interface based on hiBus (an enhanced edition of OpenWRT's uBus),
such as networking management, sensor (like GPS and gravity accelerometer)
management, and USB interface management. hiBus exchanges data among apps
and services in JSON, which is friendly for any programming language.

HybridOS will provide a variety of connectivity options for the IoT devices,
including 4G/LTE, NB-IoT, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, ZigBee, NFC, RFID, USB, Ethernet,
RS232, and so on.

The device-side system of HybridOS is based on the Linux kernel, making
full use of the Linux kernel ecosystem, reducing the difficulty of developing
various drivers and the difficulty of supporting various protocol stacks,
thus reducing development cost.

## Design Documents and Specifications

[HybridOS Architecture] gives you a whole picture of HybridOS.

For all documents, please refer to [HybridOS Documents].

## Organization of Source Code

### Main Repository

The main repository of HybridOS is <https://github.com/FMSoftCN/hybridos>.
It mainly contains documents, specifications, and building scripts for HybridOS.

The source code of HybridOS is divided into three parts:

- [Device Side](device-side/): The part running on devices which use Linux kernel.
- [Server Side](server-side/): The part running on servers in cloud.
- [Client Side](client-side/): The part running on an existing operating system,
    such as Windows, GNU/Linux, iOS, or Android.

The building scripts and samples are located in the following directories for
different sides:

```
    `
    |-- device-side/    # The building scripts and samples for device side.
    |-- server-side/    # The building scripts and samples for server side.
    |-- client-side/    # The building scripts and samples for client side.
    |-- docs/           # The design documents and specifications of HybridOS.
```

### Other Repositories

We use some popular open source software as the common infrastructure
of HybridOS. However, we have done a lot of adjustments and
optimizations for some of the key software. We call the changed versions
of the software as derivatives for HybridOS and maintain them
through the following public repositories:

- App Framework
   + hiWebKit: the HybridOS derivative of [WebKit] \(only tarball).

- Graphics Stack:
   + hiMesa: the HybridOS derivative of [Mesa]:
<https://github.com/FMSoftCN/himesa>
   + hiCairo: the HybridOS derivative of [Cairo]:
<https://github.com/FMSoftCN/hicairo>
   + hiDRMDrivers: DRM Drivers for HybridOS:
<https://github.com/FMSoftCN/hidrmdrivers>
   + MiniGUI: the window system for HybridOS:
<https://github.com/VincentWei/minigui>

- System Servers:
   + hiHttp: the HTTP server for HybridOS device side: (Stay Tuned).
   + hiBus: the data bus server for HybridOS device side:
<https://github.com/FMSoftCN/hibus>

- System Daemons:
   + hiLogged: the HybridOS logging service: (Stay tuned).
   + hiSecd: the HybridOS security service: (Stay tuned).

## Current Status

- Sep. 2020:  
   FMSoft announces the availability of the app running environment of HybridOS for device-side: hiShell.
- Aug. 2020:  
   FMSoft announces the availability of the key component of HybridOS for device-side: hiWebKit.
- Mar. 2020:  
   FMSoft announces the availability of MiniGUI 5.0 and the updated graphics stack of HybridOS for device-side.
- Nov. 2019:  
   Initial release of hiCairo.
- Nov. 2018:  
   Initiate this project and organize specifications and design documents.

## Copying

Copyright (C) 2018 \~ 2020 [Beijing FMSoft Technologies Co., Ltd.]

- For device side and client side, HybridOS uses GPLv3 or LGPLv3.
- For server side, HybridOS uses AGPLv3.
- For documents, GPLv3 applies.

If a component of HybridOS is a derivative of an existing
open source software, we generally continue to use the original license.

Also note that HybridOS integrates many mature open source software,
such as ZLib, LibPNG, LibJPEG, SQLite, FreeType, HarfBuzz, and so on.
For the copyright owners and licenses for these software, please refer to
the README or LICENSE files contained in the source tarballs.

---

[Mesa]: https://mesa3d.org/
[Cairo]: https://www.cairographics.org/

[HybridOS Documents]: docs/README.md
[HybridOS Architecture]: docs/specs/HybridOS-Architecture.md
[HybridOS Code and Development Convention]: docs/specs/HybridOS-Code-and-Development-Convention.md

[Beijing FMSoft Technologies Co., Ltd.]: https://www.fmsoft.cn
[FMSoft Technologies]: https://www.fmsoft.cn
[HybridOS Official Site]: https://hybridos.fmsoft.cn

[MiniGUI]: http:/www.minigui.com
[WebKit]: https://webkit.org
[HTML 5.3]: https://www.w3.org/TR/html53/

