.\"(c) Copyright 1992 by Panagiotis Tsirigotis
.\"(c) Sections Copyright 1998-2001 by Rob Braun
.\"All rights reserved.  The file named COPYRIGHT specifies the terms 
.\"and conditions for redistribution.
.\"
.\" $Id$
.TH XINETD.LOG 5 "28 April 1993"
.SH NAME
xinetd.log \- xinetd service log format
.\" *********************** DESCRIPTION ****************************
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A service configuration may specify various degrees of logging when
attempts are made to access the service. When logging for a service
is enabled,
.B xinetd
will generate one-line log entries which have the following format
(all entries have a timestamp as a prefix):
.sp 1
.RS
\fIentry\fP: \fIservice-id\fP \fIdata\fP
.RE
.LP
The \fIdata\fP depends on the \fIentry\fP.
Possible \fIentry\fP types include:
.RS
.TP 12
.B START
generated when a server is started
.TP
.B EXIT
generated when a server exits
.TP
.B FAIL
generated when it is not possible to start a server
.TP
.B USERID
generated if the \fIUSERID\fP log option is used.
.TP
.B NOID
generated if the 
.I USERID
log option is used,
and the 
.I IDONLY
service flag is used,
and the remote end does not identify who is trying to access the service.
.RE
.LP
In the following, the information enclosed in brackets appears 
if the appropriate log option is used.
.LP
A \fISTART\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
START: \fIservice-id\fP [pid=%d] [from=%d.%d.%d.%d]
.RE
.LP
An \fIEXIT\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
EXIT: \fIservice-id\fP [\fItype\fP=%d] [pid=%d] [duration=%d(sec)]
.RE
.sp 1
.I type
can be either
.B status
or
.B signal.
The number is either the exit status or the signal that caused process
termination.
.LP
A \fIFAIL\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
FAIL: \fIservice-id\fP \fIreason\fP [from=%d.%d.%d.%d]
.RE
.sp 1
Possible \fIreasons\fP are:
.RS
.TP 15
.B fork
a certain number of consecutive fork attempts failed (this number is
a configurable parameter)
.TP
.B time
the time check failed
.TP
.B address
the address check failed
.TP
.B service_limit
the allowed number of server instances for this service would be exceeded
.TP
.B process_limit
a limit on the number of forked processes was specified and it would 
be exceeded
.RE
.LP
A \fIDATA\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
DATA: \fIservice-id\fP \fIdata\fP
.RE
.sp 1
The \fIdata\fP logged depends on the service.
.RS
.TP 12
.B login
remote_user=%s local_user=%s tty=%s
.TP
.B exec
remote_user=%s verify=\fIstatus\fP command=%s
.br
Possible
.I status
values:
.RS
.TP 10
.I ok
the password was correct
.TP
.I failed
the password was incorrect
.TP
.I baduser
no such user
.RE
.TP
.B shell
remote_user=%s local_user=%s command=%s
.TP
.B finger
\fIreceived string\fP or
.I EMPTY-LINE
.RE
.LP
A \fIUSERID\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
USERID: \fIservice-id\fP \fItext\fP
.RE
.sp 1
The \fItext\fP is the response of the identification daemon at the remote end
excluding the port numbers (which are included in the response).
.LP
A \fINOID\fP entry has the format:
.sp 1
.RS
NOID: \fIservice-id\fP \fIIP-address\fP \fIreason\fP 
.RE
.\" *********************** SEE ALSO ****************************
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xinetd "(1L), " xinetd.conf (5)
